## Artificial Intelligence and Licenses
<p align="justify">
It would be unfair to judge the originality of work in the field of <b>"Ariticial Intelligence (AI)"</b>, as its algorithms differ to a large extent in the depth and breadth of input which is vitally consists of random snippets composed of thousands and millions of works required to produce articulate and cogent outputs.
  </p>

### Some prominent challenges of AI:
* The ethical use of AI.
* Legal amenability regarding AI and the data that fuels AI.
* Preservation of Intellectual Property(IP) rights and the appropriate allotments of ownership and use rights in the components of AI.
  
### Concerns regarding Copyrights on AI:
* <p align="justify">
  As AI does not include any direct human involvement, and in fact humans are not the only source of the creative works and outputs so generated, the works which are solely generated by the machines without any human assistance should not be <b><i>"Copyrightable"</i></b>.
  </p>
* <p align="justify">
  Mentioned above, the demand of copyright free materials, would lead to serious consequences of limiting the innovation by dissuading the AI developers and researchers to invest time and money in the field of AI leading to decline of the same.
  </p>
* <p align="justify">
  There are two parties which claims for an authorship , one who is the <b>"Real Developer"</b> and others are the <b>"Owners"</b> i.e., who provides the financial support for AI devices and machines to work properly.
  </p>
* <p align="justify">
  <b>The World of Vendors and Users:</b>Generally, immense and considerable volumes of high-quality data for training are required in order to develop highly rigorous, authentic and competitive AI-based software. The  data  required  for development are handed-over to a Vendor by a User. In some cases, the data provided to a Vendor by a User is economically valuable or confidential data that is a source of a corporation’s competitive edge, such as when the data is acquired by the User through enormous commitment of labor and expense or when that data is client data, production management data, or data embodying <i>"know-how"</i>. Accordingly, aligning the needs of Users with respect to their data and the needs of Vendors with respect to making use of deliverables is  a problem.  
  
### Solutions:
 * <p align="justify"> CC licenses solves much of the issues with copyrights on AI, but not actually fits with the concerns, as there are many issues which are not still addresed. Get more clarifications <a href="https://creativecommons.org/faq/#artificial-intelligence-and-cc-licenses">here</a>.
  </p>

* <p align="justify"> <a href="https://www.montrealdatalicense.com/en">Montreal Data License (MDL)</a>  was initiated with more clarification and explication for use cases in the field of <b>Machine Learning</b> and <b>AI</b>. The main aim of MDL is to bulid a platform towards a common framework for data licensing akin to the licensing of open source software.It provides a taxonomy for the licensing of data in the fields of artificial intelligence and machine learning. 
  </p>
  
* <p align="justify"> There should be mutual agreements between all the three parties in the field of AI and Machine Leanring i.e., <b><i>Developer,Owner</i></b> and <b><i>End Users</i></b>. It should be ensured that everybody is enjoying the rights as required and nobody is over enjoying the rights.
  </p>

* <p align="justify"> Ai technology requires both the <i>Software</i> as well as <i>Data Licenses</i>, and hence there must be a balance between <b>"Reusability"</b> along with the <b>"Protection"</b> of the data included in the trending filed of AI and ML.
  </p>
  - [] 
  
  
